In this section, we are discussing another important concept that is the difference between arrest
and the spread operator.
The category of this question is JavaScript language, and there will be four related questions we are
discussing with this topic.
From year six onwards.
There are these three dots used in many places.
Also, sometimes they are called as the rest operator.
And sometimes the very same three dots are called spread operator VI.
So let's check it out.
We will begin with the rest operator first.
Imagine a situation where you have to create a function called sum, which can take any number of arguments
and at the end it should return the sum of all the parameters passed to it.
Let's start practically.
Here I am creating the function.
Function sum.
Now I do not warn that there are two parameters passed or maybe three parameters passed.
What I just want is that I should be able to pass any number of parameters and that should be received
by this function.
So for that I can use three dots and this is called as a rest operator.
So I would say rest, for example, numbers.
So this will create an array of numbers.
Let's first of all, try to display this array of numbers.
Now I'm calling the function with two parameters another call with, let's say, more parameters.
So now, as a user of this function, I do not have any restriction for passing number of parameters.
I'm saving this and running the code here.
So you see that we have to add is now one contains two members, whereas the other contains four members.
Because we have used the rest operator.
Now, if we want some, we can put a loop and we can add the numbers and return at the end.
So this is the purpose of using the rest operator.
Also in case if you want that, here I go, let's say, and B, just in case this function has to parameters.
But the first parameter, I want to have a rest parameter.
Let's try this and see what happens.
As you can see, it gives the edit.
The reason is that is a condition that whenever you give the rest parameter operator, it has to be
last.
In fact, that actually means that you passed the first parameter in.
And for the rest of the parameters, you have this rest parameter.
That's the significance of name called rest parameters.
So now you can understand why we use three dots.
Remember, the rest operator is part of E6 in S5.
So we have an array like object called arguments which does not work with arrow function.
So we avoid.
But let's just have a look at the arguments object also.
Let's say we don't have any parameter here.
And here directly I see arguments.
I'm saving this.
Clearing the terminal.
Now I will run the same program.
When I say arguments is an error like object, what it means is it is not an ADI with rest operator.
We are creating an ADI, whereas here with arguments object.
We have a kind of object literal which has a key and value.
Key is the index number and then the value.
Now, in case if I convert this function into arrow function, it will stop working.
Let's do that.
I will say concert some is equal to.
An arrow.
Now if I try to run.
Then it's going to give me the error arguments.
Object in chart doesn't work with arrow function so with arrow function anyway you do not have any choice.
If you want that any number of parameters are passed to function and you want to deal with it.
So now if I just set order that nums again here the numbers added that is and I display with console.log.
Let's save this.
And I ran it.
So again, we are back to the working piece of code.
All right.
So whenever you use three dots with function to deal with any number of parameters, then you call it
rest operator.
That is for the rest of parameters.
Now let's talk about spread operator.
As the rest operator puts the separate data values in one area, the spread does exactly the opposite.
It spreads the array into separate data values.
Let's try one more practical example to understand this.
I'm creating one add a here.
Let's say let add out one is equal to I have a few values.
Let's say one, two, three, four and five.
Now assume that you have another at a.
This ad has its own elements as well.
Let's say from six, seven and eight we have in this ad.
Now what I want is that all these elements in everyone we need to put here before six, but those added
elements should be kind of spreading the values, not the entire Adi.
Here we have six, seven, eight of Edit2 and when you say dot, dot, dot, that is the spread operator
added one, it means added error.
One is now passed as individual elements.
Right.
There is no data structure given here.
Simple individual elements are passed.
So one, two, three, four, five is kind of spreading in the ADI and then six, seven, eight.
Let me just save this and also display the added to I'll say spread out.
Jesus.
Now you see, when I display added to it does display all the elements together.
So in a way we have now separated those values of Adi one and we hope us to add it to.
Let's take one more example for this matter, assume that you have this Adi where you have various values
in it, let's say four, 78, 90, 34 and so on.
Let me say four or five nine.
Now I want to find a max value among all these add elements.
The metadata max function takes values separately.
So ideally what you should do is you should write for common 78, common 90 and so on.
That means you are going to pass separate data values, right?
But here we want that this array which we are having now of values, we want to find the max from this
add.
Even if I write everyone directly, let's do this first cancel out log.
And.
So this.
As you see that it is giving men that is an ad is displayed man is basically not a number.
So this is invalid way of passing the data.
We have to pass it separately or we have now the spread operator which will take care of passing individual
values.
So now if I run this, now we have the value that is the max value for 59.
So this is how the rest and spread operator do.
They are three dots only, but with the context where they have used, they behave.
Now let's discuss related questions of this topic.
First question is can we use argument object in arrow function?
We have seen that it cannot be used if it is the traditional way of writing function, it can work,
otherwise it will not work.
The second question is, which is the best way to create new areas with assignments?
That is assignment operator.
Now how will you assign edit?
Let's say everyone is equal to edit two.
If you write, that is not a very preferable way because both ADI one and edit two will be objects.
So when you are assigning you can use the spread operator.
So the better way to assign edit is using the spread operator.
So you can say let error two is equal to add one.
The third question is how can you handle the number of parameters passed to a function?
Or the question can be create a function which can take any number of parameters that returns some or
maybe max value or any other such calculated values.
So you can use the rest operator to deal with such situation, which we tried in one of the example
earlier, though we did not try to find us because that's a very basic thing which anyone can do.
But the idea is to deal with the rest operator.
Fourth question can the rest operator be placed anywhere in the function parameter list?
Or there can be a core sample like this.
One may ask you, is this piece of code valid?
Give the reason.
So as we discussed earlier, we cannot have a rest parameter in the beginning of parameter list.
We have to put it at last.
If we have just a parameter list, it's okay.
But if we have more parameters then the rest parameter should be at last position because it is the
rest of the parameters.